What is a Seller’s Disclosure
and Why it’s Important.
Before you list your home, one of the
most important documents you will complete
is the Seller’s Disclosure Notice.
The Seller’s Disclosure is a legal
document required in Texas for most
previously occupied single-family homes.
Its purpose is simple.
You are disclosing what you know
about the condition of the property so
buyers can make an informed decision.
This form is not a warranty and
it is not a home inspection.
It is a snapshot of your knowledge
of the home based on your experience
living there or owning it.
For buyers, the disclosure helps
identify known issues with things
like the roof, foundation, plumbing,
electrical systems, or past water damage.
This information helps buyers understand
the property and avoid surprises later.
For sellers, the disclosure
is just as important.
Completing it accurately helps
protect you from future claims
of fraud or misrepresentation.
Under Texas law, failing to disclose
known issues can expose you to legal
liability for hidden defects for up to
four years after the sale has closed.
The form covers a wide range of
topics, including major systems,
past flooding or insurance claims,
pest issues, repairs, additions, and
whether there are any known conditions
that could affect health or safety.
When filling it out, answer
each question honestly and
based on your actual knowledge.
You are not required to
investigate, guess, or disclose
rumors from prior owners.
If you do not know the answer,
“Unknown” is an acceptable response.
A common rule to follow is this.
Do not overshare, but do not
withhold known information.
If you know about an issue, disclose it.
The Seller’s Disclosure must be
delivered before or at the time
the contract goes into effect.
Providing it late can give the buyer
the right to terminate the contract.
Taking the time to complete this form
carefully helps set clear expectations,
builds trust, and protects you
legally throughout the transaction.